# Noggit SDL 3.1021

Finally Noggit SDL 3.1021 is there!
The most important change is probably a fix of the well known model bug as well as the removal of the requirement to fill all four layers.
But here's a approximate changelog:

Steff | Fix: If you selected an model, copied to clipboard, deleted source (it it is last model on map of this type) and pasted it then. Noggit crashed.
Steff | Calculate camera height related to terrain height on map load.
Steff | Fix that texture swapper stayed visible if you changed the tool
Steff | Add new option to toggle model animation rendering. F11 and Menu option in View menu added for this. For easyer model selection like birds.
schlumpf | various memory leaks or potential crashes
Valium | Initial support for drawing tablets on Windows.  Crashes if you don't have a tablet installed.
Valium | Implemented Blizzard style wireframe.
schlumpf | mapchunk: save: fix: only set low_quality_texture_map bits once to avoid error in overwriting (missing clean) (the 4 layer bug)
Adspartan | Fix to prevent texture duplication on a chunk (swapping duplicated textures remove the duplicate).
Adspartan | Fix random hole bug when using the hole tool by checking is the cursor is not underground when adding a hole.
Adspartan | Set tile as changed when using "swap adt".
Adspartan | prevent m2/wmo selection when using a tool
Adspartan | Fix texture shift ingame
Adspartan | Alphamap loading / saving changes
Adspartan | Prevent crash when loading or drawing wmo. (for retroported WMOs)
Adspartan | Fix texture shift between noggit and wow client
Adspartan | Fix alphamap loading for uncompressed (2048)
Adspartan | Paste object at the cursor pos if nothing is selected
Adspartan | Vertex shading is now correctly implemented.
Kaev | This should hopefully fix all model bugs when you save your files