Noggit SDL 3.1222 BETA

 

I've added a few functionalities and fixed some bugs since the last release so I thought it was the time to do another one.

Here are the important changes:

Adspartan | Texturing rework (see below).
Adspartan | Flatten with an angle.
Adspartan | Add TabletMode in config file to activate/deactivate tablet support.
Adspartan | Add texture swapper on the texture picker (swap the current selected texture with the one above/below).
Adspartan | Fix MFBO bug.
Adspartan | Add BigAlpha support and a option in the assist menu to convert the current map to BigAlpha.
Adspartan | Rework fix gap tool, it also automatically fix all gaps on the loaded adt when saving.
Adspartan | Add object editor (see below).
Adspartan | Only change height when snapping to the ground.
Adspartan | Add button in 3D paint to remove duplicates on an adt.
Adspartan | Add shortcut to remove all ground (t)/remove all holes (alt+t) on the current adt when using the hole tool.
Adspartan | Split map menus to avoid going out of screen and add arenas.
Adspartan | Show the inner circle of the paint brush in 3D paint when using the first cursor mode.
Adspartan | Add filter for the names in the model selector.
Adspartan | ImportFile in the config is now used to specify the "Import.txt" file.
Adspartan | Add wmvLogFile in the config to specify where the Wow Model Viewer log file is.
Adspartan | Fix parsing of WMV log file, it should know works with any version.
Adspartan | Fix issue where a texture could be deleted in the texture palette.
Adspartan | Add spray brush for texturing (press t to activate/deactivate it in 3D paint).

Texturing rework:

Texture order should not matter anymore.
Painting the base texture over others isn't faster anymore.
It's now possible to change the opacity of the base layer using the gradient if another texture is present on the chunk.
Unused texture are removed from a chunk when painting on it.
Chunk borders may be visible with highly contrasted texture and low pressure but should not be visible in game when texturing a map normally.
Object editor:

Press 0 or click on the crate icon in the toolbar to open it.
Models can now only be selected when using this tool.
Press CTRL+C or C to copy the selected model.
Press CTRL+V or V to paste the currently used model (the name is displayed at the bottom of the screen).
The model copy related options in the edit menu have been moved the the object editor.
To open the model selector (import file models) press the "From txt" button.
Clicking on a model's name in the model selector "copy" the model as if you used CTRL+C/C on a selected model.
To add the selected model to the import file press the "To txt" button.
The "Spawn on camera" button paste the model at the current camera position without taking into account the orientation.